# Player Driven
Instead of creating vendors that sell and buy goods from players, creating
factions, creating NPCs as police/military/etc forces, and other systems, we
will put these requirements on the player base. A default, base social
structure in the form of a ruthlessly efficient autocracy subservient to
pseudo-Skynet will initially be put into place to make the game run smoothly at
first, and that social structure is expected to persist for a while. If there
aren’t enough structures in place in the game for it to function effectively,
we can always go in and implement them ourselves to get it kickstarted.

This is one of the base concepts of the game and follows our philosophy on
development: implement creative, out-of-the-box ideas that either reduce
workload or require minimal workload. Putting many requirements on the player
to implement instead of developers reduces our workload but also provides a
radical, new, and enjoyable experience.

# High Level Implimentation
Other games like rust, dayz, and more incorporate total player freedom but
there are minimal social structures implemented and when they are, they are
crude and boring. HL2RP is closer because it is inherently cooperative and
requires collaboration between players to get anywhere, but is this usually
enforced by admins, applications, and other boring systems. Eve Online is the
closest as it implements economy, player autonomy, and large player social
structures. The difference between these games, in my mind, largely stems from
economies and the difficulty of tasks. When tasks require more people to
complete, more people will naturally come together to complete them. When an
economy requires many people and structures to support it, structures will
naturally form and people will collaborate.

## Examples
Examples of how we will make tasks difficult/multiplayer are: 1. Make the
environment more tretorous a. Environmental hazards (dust storms, tornados,
toxic fumes, etc) b. Wild animals, mutants, or other malicious entities; 2.
Conflict between different groups; 3. Allow crime; 4. Implement diseases that
require treatment or care; and 5. Make wounds more impactful so that they also
require treatment or care (often by a skilled person with higher-order
products).

We can make the economy more collaborative not by making things more costly to
produce but by requiring multiple steps, specializations, and capital
investments to produce. This will create a market for specialization and a
system to share capital (sharing capital doesn’t necessarily mean for free, it
can be, for instance, buying ore to refine it and selling the refined ore).

